and joining us live now from Minneapolis
Minnesota is taher harala he is director
of Outreach and Grassroots organizing at
the American the organization American
Muslims for Palestine um let's get into
a number of the the news lines that
we've been discussing over the last few
minutes perhaps most interestingly given
where you are this apparent increasing
division perhaps that's putting it too
strong but certainly criticism coming
from the White House of at least
elements of Israeli policy uh some it
seems off camera of Benjamin Netanyahu
by implication as well uh what do you
make of
that well it's very clear that
internally uh the United States is very
cognizant of the fact that Israel is
committing genocide in Gaza uh and this
uh these recent statements by the
president of the United States Joe Biden
indicate the internal conversations uh
in the White House are uh very clearly
um pointing to one thing and that Israel
is committing crime CRI Against Humanity
and that the United States is having a
hard time digesting those crimes um and
now the U the division between Benjamin
Netanyahu and Joe Biden is becoming more
evident um and the president's statement
last night uh indicates that the
appetite American Appetite uh for uh
Israel's crimes in
Gaza and so what do you make of the fact
that I I think we may have lost the line
to Ty
are you still there can you hear
us Mr herela I think we need to move on
we've lost the sound I don't know if
there's anything you can do at your end
if you've muted by
mistake no all right we'll try and come
back to him later if this time but uh
thank you very much T haala still ahead
on Al
jazer not just a piece of artart we have
more on the famous sculpture destroyed
by Israeli forces in Janine
[Music]
welcome back you're watching Al jazer a
reminder of our top stories this hour
new pictures from a school Sheltering
displaced Palestinians in Northern Gaza
show bodies piled up following an
Israeli attack Witnesses say a number of
people including women children and
babies were killed execution Style by
Israeli forces while they were
Sheltering
inside hundreds of thousands of
Palestinian families are fighting for
survival in Gaza as heavy rains bring
extensive flooding large parts of
informal camps are underwater amid
Israeli attacks Aid agencies warn
waterbor diseases could spread on a wide
scale an Israeli raid in the occupied
West Bank is continuing more than 24
hours nearly 48 hours after it started
in the city of Janine seven people have
been
killed now let's hear from Martin
Griffith he's the UN under secretary for
humanitarian Affairs and emergency
relief he told Al jazer that Hamas was
among the Palestinian voices that needed
to be heard when deciding the future of
Palestine why aren't we asking the
Palestinian people what they want to
see and of course their ideas will be uh
confused in many ways their views about
starting a political process will be
over ambitious no
doubt their voice just as in Sudan the
civilian voice the Civil Society the
civilian voice The Voice equ also by the
way of Hamas and other
organizations um who've been involved in
the
Palestinian um or um Universe needs to
be heard we need them to be given the
opportunity to tell us their views about
the future I'm a stranger I get no vote
in
Palestine but there are many who do and
they have strong views much better
informed than
mine Martin Griffis there talking to our
diplomatic editor to James Bay for talk
to Al jazer uh you can see that uh on
Friday December the 15th at 11:30
GMT now let's cross back to Minneapolis
Minnesota and Ty hella thank you very
much for your patience staying with us
uh we were talking a couple of minutes
ago you were talking about the nature of
the apparent policy Division and
discomfort within the US Administration
now we have National Security adviser
Jake Sullivan heading out to the region
what you expect of him and and do you
think he can be successful in pulling
levers to potentially mediate and change
Israeli
policy yes I think the uh the statements
by the president at a public gathering
describing what Israel is doing as quote
indiscriminate bombing uh is a
reflection of the type of internal
conversations that are being had in the
white house um about what Israel is
doing in Gaza and the the criticisms of
the Biden Administration here in the
United States are becoming louder and
louder by the day uh where uh
Congressional staff are now confronting
uh their members of Congress their
bosses essentially on Capitol Hill uh
demanding a ceasefire and so as the
pressure mounts on the Biden
Administration uh we are starting to uh
see uh that the Biden uh Camp is um uh
more and more inclined towards uh
discussing a ceasefire or more and more
inclined towards uh moving in that
direction at least uh but the problem is
uh that the US Administration so far has
uh maybe uh started to break ranks with
with Israel as far as the narrative is
concerned however um as far as us
weapons Supply is concerned uh that flow
or that um that faucet is still open and
on and and unfortunately uh we saw this
week uh the $105 million transfer of
ammunition tank shells uh to Israel uh
to continue its quote indiscriminate
bombings uh that Joe Biden uh so um so
rightfully uh described well yeah that
there are some reports that there is a a
ban on or at least a delay to the
transfer of M16 tens of thousands of M16
rifles uh because of fears that they
might be used in the occupied West Bank
and the United States has been sort of
pushing against settler attacks in the
occupied West Bank but at the same time
uh voting with Israel in the United
Nations so it's a case of certainly more
public facing uh discomfort and
criticism uh while at the same time at
the UN it very much
is voting with
Israel absolutely I think the United
Nations General Assembly um made a very
strong rebuke of Israel uh yesterday uh
with more than 153 Nations demanding a
ceasefire uh and only um a 23 Nations
abstaining with 10 voting against and
even if you look at the abstentions uh
America's greatest allies uh UK France
Germany Italy uh Spain uh refused to
vote against the ceasefire despite
American pressure to do so and that is
an indication of the fact that uh even
in Europe uh America's closest allies
they cannot stomach yet another Massacre
yet another invasion of a hospital uh
and and the uh more images of the bodies
of of Palestinian children um um
decapitated uh due to Israeli
bombardment and so uh this is a clear
indication that despite us pressure and
despite what the United States may be
trying to do in building International
consensus in support of Israel's
invasion of Gaza its continued
occupation of Gaza uh it's clear that
that is an uphill battle that the United
States cannot win and that's why we are
seeing also the Biden Administration
changing its tone um with regards to
what is taking place and starting to
send clear messages to Israel um that
this uh that that moral Authority or the
moral claim that Israel may have had on
October 7th no longer stands as it
continues its genocide in Gaza all right
tala thank you for your time thank you
for staying with us despite those uh
technical glitches and and thanks for
joining us from
Minneapolis